Add more descriptions & examples to the readme (#316)
canonical/microcluster: doc/upgrades.md

# Upgrading Microcluster

> Upgrading refers to coordinating the move to a new build of a project using Microcluster, that introduces logical changes like an alteration to the database schema or a change to the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new build of a project that uses Microcluster introduces logical changes such as a schema update or API extensions, Microcluster coordinates upgrading to this new build in the manner described below.
```

> ## Schema Updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Schema updates
```

> The [app.Start function](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/v3/microcluster/app.go#L69-L92) accepts as argument a list of functions that are run in sequence. The functions supply a database transaction that can be used to extend or modify the schema of the dqlite database supplied to Microcluster. The order of this list must not change, and new updates must be added to the end of the list, in the order that they must be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [app.Start function](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/v3/microcluster/app.go#L69-L92) accepts as an argument a list of functions that are run in sequence. These functions supply a database transaction that can be used to extend or modify the schema of the Dqlite database used by Microcluster. The order of the functions in this list must not change. New updates must be added to the end of the list, in the order to be executed.
```

> A schema version is maintained per cluster member representing the sum-total of updates that the member is locally aware of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A schema version is maintained per cluster member, representing the sum-total of updates that the member is locally aware of.
```

### Example

https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/v3/example/database/extended_schema.go#L11-L16

> ## API Extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## API extensions
```

> The [app.Start function](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/v3/microcluster/app.go#L69-L92) accepts as argument a `[]string` that is interpreted as an ordered list of labels corresponding to changes to the API. The order of this list should not change over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [app.Start function](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/v3/microcluster/app.go#L69-L92) accepts as argument a `[]string` that is interpreted as an ordered list of labels corresponding to changes to the API. Do not change the order of this list. 
```

### Example

https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/v3/example/api/extensions.go

> ## Upgrade Behaviour

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upgrade behavior
```

> In order to ensure consistent behaviour across the cluster, schema updates are only committed to the database once all members' expected schema versions are consistent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure consistent behavior across the cluster, schema updates are only committed to the database once all members' expected schema versions are consistent.
```

> For each cluster member, when restarting the microcluster service with a new build that includes new schema updates or API extensions, this member will enter a waiting state until all members have encountered the same updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upgrade to a new build that includes new schema updates or API extensions, each cluster member's Microcluster service must be restarted after the build. Each cluster member will enter a waiting state until all members have encountered the same updates.
```

Reviewer: Can you clarify what's meant by "encountered" an update?

> If a cluster member is restarted with an out-of-date schema version or API extension count, it will exit with an error informing that an upgrade is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a cluster member is restarted with an out-of-date schema version or API extension count compared to the other members, it will exit with an error informing that an upgrade is available.
```

> Un-upgraded members will not be affected by the upgrade and continue to function as normal. However, they will not be able to communicate with any members waiting for an upgrade to be committed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Members that have not been upgraded will not be affected by the upgrade and continue to function as normal. However, they will not be able to communicate with any members waiting for an upgrade to be committed.
```

Reviewer: To me, this contradicts what's said in line 29. Line 29 seems to say that cluster members that have not been upgraded will exit with an error. (Exit what?) Then line 31 says that members that have not been upgraded will continue to function as normal. Can you clarify?

Author: If a cluster member is upgraded, any running un-upgraded cluster members will not be immediately affected. However if any of those un-upgraded members are restarted, when they come back up, they will see that the waiting-for-upgrade member has a higher schema version or API extension count, so they will stop and display an error describing that the un-upgraded member is out of date.

The user would first have to roll back the waiting member (this is possible since nothing has been committed yet) before the un-upgraded members can restart cleanly.

> * On un-upgraded members, [client.GetClusterMembers](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/4d80df396e335bf26f9895956e846e082bb8f624/internal/rest/client/cluster.go#L40-L49) will report [UNREACHABLE](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/4d80df396e335bf26f9895956e846e082bb8f624/rest/types/cluster.go#L47) for any members that have encountered an upgrade and are waiting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On members that have not been upgraded, [client.GetClusterMembers](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/4d80df396e335bf26f9895956e846e082bb8f624/internal/rest/client/cluster.go#L40-L49) will report [UNREACHABLE](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/4d80df396e335bf26f9895956e846e082bb8f624/rest/types/cluster.go#L47) for any members that have encountered an upgrade and are waiting.
```

> * On upgraded members, before the upgrade is committed, [client.GetClusterMembers](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/4d80df396e335bf26f9895956e846e082bb8f624/internal/rest/client/cluster.go#L40-L49) will report [UPGRADING](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/4d80df396e335bf26f9895956e846e082bb8f624/rest/types/cluster.go#L56) for all waiting members, and [NEEDS UPGRADE](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/4d80df396e335bf26f9895956e846e082bb8f624/rest/types/cluster.go#L59) for all un-upgraded members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On upgraded members, before the upgrade is committed, [client.GetClusterMembers](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/4d80df396e335bf26f9895956e846e082bb8f624/internal/rest/client/cluster.go#L40-L49) will report [UPGRADING](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/4d80df396e335bf26f9895956e846e082bb8f624/rest/types/cluster.go#L56) for all waiting members, and [NEEDS UPGRADE](https://github.com/canonical/microcluster/blob/4d80df396e335bf26f9895956e846e082bb8f624/rest/types/cluster.go#L59) for all members that have not been upgraded.
```

> ## Example Schema Upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example schema upgrade
```

> The following example performs a schema upgrade on a 3 member cluster, incrementing the schema version by 1. Adding additional API extensions would have the same behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example performs a schema upgrade on a 3-member cluster, incrementing the schema version by 1. Adding additional API extensions would have the same behavior.
```

> The following example performs a schema upgrade on a 3 member cluster, incrementing the schema version by 1. Adding additional API extensions would have the same behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example performs a schema upgrade on a 3 member cluster, incrementing the schema version by 1. Adding additional API extensions would result in the same behavior.
```
